README.md, before:

[![Android Arsenal](https://img.shields.io/badge/Android%20Arsenal-EasyImage-green.svg?style=true)](https://android-arsenal.com/details/1/2725)
# What is it?
EasyImage allow you to easily take picture from gallery, camera or documents without creating lots of boilerplate.
  
#How to use it?
##Essentials

####Taking straight to camera
- ```EasyImage.openCamera(Activity activity, int type);```
- ```EasyImage.openCamera(Fragment fragment, int type);```

####Taking straight to gallery or the gallery picker if there is more than 1 gallery app
- ```EasyImage.openGallery(Activity activity, int type);```
- ```EasyImage.openGallery(Fragment fragment, int type);```

####Taking straight to documents app
- ```EasyImage.openDocuments(Activity activity, int type);```
- ```EasyImage.openDocuments(Fragment fragment, int type);```

####Displaying system picker to chose from camera or documents or gallery if no documents app available
- ```EasyImage.openChooserWithDocuments(Activity activity, String chooserTitle, int type);```
- ```EasyImage.openChooserWithDocuments(Fragment fragment, String chooserTitle, int type);```

####Displaying system picker to chose from camera or gallery app
- ```EasyImage.openChooserWithGallery(Activity activity, String chooserTitle, int type);```
- ```EasyImage.openChooserWithGallery(Fragment fragment, String chooserTitle, int type);```


Type param is there only if you wan't to return different kind of images on the same screen, otherwise it's not relevant. If so just pass any int there.

####Getting the photo file

```java
@Override
protected void onActivityResult(int requestCode, int resultCode, Intent data) {
    super.onActivityResult(requestCode, resultCode, data);

    EasyImage.handleActivityResult(requestCode, resultCode, data, this, new DefaultCallback() {
        @Override
        public void onImagePickerError(Exception e, EasyImage.ImageSource source, int type) {
            //Some error handling
        }

        @Override
        public void onImagePicked(File imageFile, EasyImage.ImageSource source, int type) {
            //Handle the image
            onPhotoReturned(imageFile);
        }
    });
}
```
##Additional features
####Removing canceled but captured photo
If the user takes photo using camera, but then cancels, you might wanna remove that photo from the device.
Sample app present's the usage:
```java
  @Override
  public void onCanceled(EasyImage.ImageSource source, int type) {
      //Cancel handling, you might wanna remove taken photo if it was canceled
      if (source == EasyImage.ImageSource.CAMERA) {
          File photoFile = EasyImage.lastlyTakenButCanceledPhoto(MainActivity.this);
          if (photoFile != null) photoFile.delete();
      }
  }
  ```
####Additional configuration
```java
  EasyImage.configuration(this)
          .setImagesFolderName("My app images") //images folder name, default is "EasyImage"
          //.saveInAppExternalFilesDir() //if you want to use root internal memory for storying images
          .saveInRootPicturesDirectory(); //if you want to use internal memory for storying images - default
```
Configuration is persisted so if you want to clear it before the next use call 
```java
EasyImage.clearConfiguration(Context context);
```

#Setup

##Runtime permissions
Library requires permission from your app. Declare it in your ```AndroidMnifest.xml```
```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE" />
```

**Please note** that for devices running API 23 (marshmallow) you have to request this permission in the runtime, before calling ```EasyImage.openCamera()```. It's demonstrated in the sample app.

**There is also one issue about runtime permissions**. According to the docs: 

```If your app targets M and above and declares as using the CAMERA permission which is not granted, then attempting to use this action will result in a SecurityException.``` 

For this reason, if your app uses ```CAMERA``` permission, you should check it **aswell** as ```WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE``` before calling 
```java 
EasyImage.openCamera()
```

[This library](https://github.com/tajchert/Nammu) will help you manage runtime permissions.

##Gradle dependency
```groovy
repositories {
    maven { url "https://jitpack.io" }
}
    
dependencies {
    compile 'com.github.jkwiecien:EasyImage:1.2.1'
}
```


License
=======

    Copyright 2015 Jacek Kwiecień.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.

Commit message:

added chooser with gallery and documents

README.md, after:

[![Android Arsenal](https://img.shields.io/badge/Android%20Arsenal-EasyImage-green.svg?style=true)](https://android-arsenal.com/details/1/2725)
# What is it?
EasyImage allow you to easily take picture from gallery, camera or documents without creating lots of boilerplate.
  
#How to use it?
##Essentials

####Taking straight to camera
- ```EasyImage.openCamera(Activity activity, int type);```
- ```EasyImage.openCamera(Fragment fragment, int type);```

####Taking straight to gallery or the gallery picker if there is more than 1 gallery app
- ```EasyImage.openGallery(Activity activity, int type);```
- ```EasyImage.openGallery(Fragment fragment, int type);```

####Taking straight to documents app
- ```EasyImage.openDocuments(Activity activity, int type);```
- ```EasyImage.openDocuments(Fragment fragment, int type);```

####Displaying system picker to chose from camera or documents
- ```EasyImage.openChooserWithDocuments(Activity activity, String chooserTitle, int type);```
- ```EasyImage.openChooserWithDocuments(Fragment fragment, String chooserTitle, int type);```

####Displaying system picker to chose from camera or gallery app
- ```EasyImage.openChooserWithGallery(Activity activity, String chooserTitle, int type);```
- ```EasyImage.openChooserWithGallery(Fragment fragment, String chooserTitle, int type);```

####Displaying system picker to chose from camera or gallery app or documents
- ```EasyImage.openChooserWithGalleryAndDocuments(Activity activity, String chooserTitle, int type);```
- ```EasyImage.openChooserWithGalleryAndDocuments(Fragment fragment, String chooserTitle, int type);```


Type param is there only if you wan't to return different kind of images on the same screen, otherwise it's not relevant. If so just pass any int there.

####Getting the photo file

```java
@Override
protected void onActivityResult(int requestCode, int resultCode, Intent data) {
    super.onActivityResult(requestCode, resultCode, data);

    EasyImage.handleActivityResult(requestCode, resultCode, data, this, new DefaultCallback() {
        @Override
        public void onImagePickerError(Exception e, EasyImage.ImageSource source, int type) {
            //Some error handling
        }

        @Override
        public void onImagePicked(File imageFile, EasyImage.ImageSource source, int type) {
            //Handle the image
            onPhotoReturned(imageFile);
        }
    });
}
```
##Additional features
####Removing canceled but captured photo
If the user takes photo using camera, but then cancels, you might wanna remove that photo from the device.
Sample app present's the usage:
```java
  @Override
  public void onCanceled(EasyImage.ImageSource source, int type) {
      //Cancel handling, you might wanna remove taken photo if it was canceled
      if (source == EasyImage.ImageSource.CAMERA) {
          File photoFile = EasyImage.lastlyTakenButCanceledPhoto(MainActivity.this);
          if (photoFile != null) photoFile.delete();
      }
  }
  ```
####Additional configuration
```java
  EasyImage.configuration(this)
          .setImagesFolderName("My app images") //images folder name, default is "EasyImage"
          //.saveInAppExternalFilesDir() //if you want to use root internal memory for storying images
          .saveInRootPicturesDirectory(); //if you want to use internal memory for storying images - default
```
Configuration is persisted so if you want to clear it before the next use call 
```java
EasyImage.clearConfiguration(Context context);
```

#Setup

##Runtime permissions
Library requires permission from your app. Declare it in your ```AndroidMnifest.xml```
```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE" />
```

**Please note** that for devices running API 23 (marshmallow) you have to request this permission in the runtime, before calling ```EasyImage.openCamera()```. It's demonstrated in the sample app.

**There is also one issue about runtime permissions**. According to the docs: 

```If your app targets M and above and declares as using the CAMERA permission which is not granted, then attempting to use this action will result in a SecurityException.``` 

For this reason, if your app uses ```CAMERA``` permission, you should check it **aswell** as ```WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE``` before calling 
```java 
EasyImage.openCamera()
```

[This library](https://github.com/tajchert/Nammu) will help you manage runtime permissions.

##Gradle dependency
```groovy
repositories {
    maven { url "https://jitpack.io" }
}
    
dependencies {
    compile 'com.github.jkwiecien:EasyImage:1.2.1'
}
```


License
=======

    Copyright 2015 Jacek Kwiecień.

    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
    You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
    limitations under the License.
